doc/backend_vars.asciidoc, before:

Supported variables per backend
-------------------------------

.COMMON backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
EXCLUDE_MODULES;string;;comma separated names or fullnames of excluded test modules
NOVIDEO;boolean;0;Do not encode video if set
SCREENSHOTINTERVAL;;;
|====================

.IPMI backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
IPMI_HOSTNAME;string;Hostname/IP for IPMI interface;
IPMI_PASSWORD;string;Password for the IPMI interface;
IPMI_USER;string;Username for the IPMI interface;
|====================

.QEMU backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
ARCH;x86_64|i686|aarch64|...;depends on tested medium;Architecture of VM.
AUTO_INST;;;
ATACONTROLLER;see qemu -device ?, e. g. for SATA: ich9-ahci;;Controller for ATA devices, needed for connecting disks as SATA.
BIOS;;;
BOOT_HDD_IMAGE;boolean;;enables boot from HDD_1 (BOOTFROM has higher priority)
BOOTFROM;chars;undef;Influences order of boot devices. See qemu -boot option
CDMODEL;see qemu -device ?;undef;Storage device for virtualized CD
DELAYED_START;boolean;;delay vm cpu start until resume_vm() is called
HDDFORMAT;;;
HDDMODEL;see qemu -device ?;virtio-blk;Storage device for virtualized HDD.
HDDSIZEGB;integer;10;Creates HDD with specified size in GiB
HDD_$i;filename;;Filename of HDD image to be used for VM. Up to 9
ISO;filename;;Filename of ISO file to be attached to VM
ISO_$i;filename;;Aditional ISO to be attached to VM. Up to 9
KEEPHDDS;boolean;;Leave created HDD after test finishes. Useful for debugging tests
LAPTOP;boolean or filename;0;If 1, loads Dell E6330 DMI. If filename, loads specified DMI
MAKETESTSNAPSHOTS;boolean;0;Save snapshot for each test module in qcow image
MULTINET;boolean;0;VM will have two virtual NIC. Can't be used with NICTYPE tap
MULTIPATH;boolean;0;Add HDD drives as multipath devices. Override HDDMODEL to virtio-scsi-pci
NBF;boolean;0;open source network boot firmware e.g. to attach iscsi target on boot http://ipxe.org/
NICMAC;any MAC address;52:54:00:12:34:56;MAC address to be assigned to virtual network card
NICMODEL;see qemu -device ?;virtio-net;Network device virtual NIC.
NICTYPE;user|tap|vde;user;Instruct QEMU to either use user networking or to connect virtual NIC to existin system TAP device
NICTYPE_USER_OPTIONS;string;undef;Arbitrary options for NICTYPE
NICVLAN;integer;undef;network (vlan) number to which the NIC should be connected, assigned by scheduler to jobs with NICTYPE != user
NUMDISKS;integer;1;Number of disks to be created and attached to VM
OFW;;;
PATHCNT;integer;2;Number of paths in MULTIPATH scenario
PXEBOOT;boolean;0;Boot VM from network
QEMU;QEMU binary filename;undef;Filename of QEMU binary to use
QEMUCPU;see qemu -cpu ?;undef;CPU to emulate
QEMUCPUS;integer;1;Number of CPUs to assign to VM
QEMUMACHINE;see qemu -machine ?;undef;Machine and chipset to emulate
QEMUPORT;integer;20002 + worker instance * 10;Port on which QEMU monitor should listen
QEMURAM;integer;1024;Size of RAM of VM in MiB
QEMUTHREADS;integer;0;Number of cpu threads used by VM
QEMUVGA;see qemu -device ?;cirrus;VGA device to use with VM
QEMU_COMPRESS_QCOW2;boolean;0;compress qcow2 images intended for upload
QEMU_NO_FDC_SET;boolean;0;Don't disable the floppy drive.
QEMU_NO_KVM;boolean;0;Don't use KVM acceleration.
QEMU_NO_TABLET;boolean;0;Don't use USB tablet.
QEMU_VIRTIO_RNG;boolean;0;Enable virtio random number generator
QEMU_NUMA;boolean;0;Enable NUMA simulation, requires QEMUCPUS to be greater than one
RAIDLEVEL;;;
SKIPTO;full name of test module;;Restore VM from snapshot and continue by running specified test module. Needs HDD image with snapshots present
TAPDEV;device name;undef;TAP device name to which virtual NIC should be connected. Usually undef so automatic matching is used
TAPSCRIPT;;;
TESTDEBUG;boolean;0;Enable test debugging: override 'milestone' and 'fatal' test flags to 1. Snapshot are created after each successful test module and each fail aborts test run
UEFI;;;
UEFI_PFLASH;boolean;0;Enable the pflash mode to write the UEFI variables directly into the firmware file instead of NVvars in the EFI system partition
UEFI_BIOS;;;
USBBOOT;boolean;0;Mount ISO as USB disk and boot VM from it
VDE_PORT;integer;worker instance + 10;number of vde switch port to connect
VDE_SOCKETDIR;string;.;directory where vde_switch control socket is to be found
VDE_USE_SLIRP;integer;1;whether to start slirpvde
VNC;integer;worker instance + 90;Display on which VNC server is running. Actual port is 5900 + VNC
VNCKB;;;
|====================

.SVIRT backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
HDDSIZEGB;integer;15;Disk size in GB
QEMUCPUS;integer;1;Number of CPUs to assign to VM
QEMURAM;integer;1024;Size of RAM of VM in MiB
VIRSH_HOSTNAME;string;SSH Host with virtsh;
VIRSH_PASSWORD;string;Password for root account on above host;
VIRSH_VMM_FAMILY;string;Host's hypervisor ('kvm', 'xen');
VIRSH_VMM_TYPE;string;Host's hypervisor type ('hvm' for full virtualization on 'kvm' and 'xen' families, 'linux' for paravirtualization on 'xen' family);
VIRSH_GUEST;string;Where to look for VNC server (SUT or VM);
VIRSH_INSTANCE;integer;VM's instance number on VIRSH_HOSTNAME;
VMWARE_USERNAME;string;Administrator's username ('@' is '%40');
VMWARE_PASSWORD;string;Administrator's password;
VMWARE_HOST;string;VCS server for autentication;
VMWARE_DATACENTER;string;VMware datacenter;
VMWARE_SERVER;string;ESX server to start VM on;
VMWARE_DATASTORE;string;VMware datastore;
VMWARE_SERIAL_PORT;string;TCP port where is VM's serial port stream to be expected on the ESX server;
VMWARE_BRIDGE;string;VMware's bridge name (usual default is 'VM Network');
HYPERV_USERNAME;string;Administrator account name;
HYPERV_PASSWORD;string;Password for above account;
HYPERV_SERVER;string;Windows Server (2008 R2, 2012 R2, or 2016) instance IP address;
HYPERV_SERIAL_PORT;integer;TCP port where is VM's serial port stream to be expected on the Hyper-V server;
|====================

.PVM backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
MEM;integer;2048;amount of RAM
LPAR;string;osauto;LPAR name to be created
NUMDISKS;integer;1;Number of disks
HDDSIZEGB;integer;15;Disk size in GB
NICVLAN;integer;1;VLAN to attach to
VSWITCH;string;VSWITCH0;A virtula switch to connect to
CPUS;integer;1;Number of CPUS for LPAR
|====================

.GENERAL_HW backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
GENERAL_HW_VNC_IP;string;;Hostname of the gadget's network
GENERAL_HW_CMD_DIR;string;;Directory with allowed CMD scripts
GENERAL_HW_SOL_CMD;string;;Shell Script to output serial output (in CMD_DIR)
GENERAL_HW_POWERON_CMD;string;;Shell Command to power on the SUT (in CMD_DIR)
GENERAL_HW_POWEROFF_CMD;string;;Shell Command to power off the SUT (in CMD_DIR)
|====================

Commit message:

Allow to set qemu -smbios via variable

doc/backend_vars.asciidoc, after:

Supported variables per backend
-------------------------------

.COMMON backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
EXCLUDE_MODULES;string;;comma separated names or fullnames of excluded test modules
NOVIDEO;boolean;0;Do not encode video if set
SCREENSHOTINTERVAL;;;
|====================

.IPMI backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
IPMI_HOSTNAME;string;Hostname/IP for IPMI interface;
IPMI_PASSWORD;string;Password for the IPMI interface;
IPMI_USER;string;Username for the IPMI interface;
|====================

.QEMU backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
ARCH;x86_64|i686|aarch64|...;depends on tested medium;Architecture of VM.
AUTO_INST;;;
ATACONTROLLER;see qemu -device ?, e. g. for SATA: ich9-ahci;;Controller for ATA devices, needed for connecting disks as SATA.
BIOS;;;
BOOT_HDD_IMAGE;boolean;;enables boot from HDD_1 (BOOTFROM has higher priority)
BOOTFROM;chars;undef;Influences order of boot devices. See qemu -boot option
CDMODEL;see qemu -device ?;undef;Storage device for virtualized CD
DELAYED_START;boolean;;delay vm cpu start until resume_vm() is called
HDDFORMAT;;;
HDDMODEL;see qemu -device ?;virtio-blk;Storage device for virtualized HDD.
HDDSIZEGB;integer;10;Creates HDD with specified size in GiB
HDD_$i;filename;;Filename of HDD image to be used for VM. Up to 9
ISO;filename;;Filename of ISO file to be attached to VM
ISO_$i;filename;;Aditional ISO to be attached to VM. Up to 9
KEEPHDDS;boolean;;Leave created HDD after test finishes. Useful for debugging tests
LAPTOP;boolean or filename;0;If 1, loads Dell E6330 DMI. If filename, loads specified DMI
MAKETESTSNAPSHOTS;boolean;0;Save snapshot for each test module in qcow image
MULTINET;boolean;0;VM will have two virtual NIC. Can't be used with NICTYPE tap
MULTIPATH;boolean;0;Add HDD drives as multipath devices. Override HDDMODEL to virtio-scsi-pci
NBF;boolean;0;open source network boot firmware e.g. to attach iscsi target on boot http://ipxe.org/
NICMAC;any MAC address;52:54:00:12:34:56;MAC address to be assigned to virtual network card
NICMODEL;see qemu -device ?;virtio-net;Network device virtual NIC.
NICTYPE;user|tap|vde;user;Instruct QEMU to either use user networking or to connect virtual NIC to existin system TAP device
NICTYPE_USER_OPTIONS;string;undef;Arbitrary options for NICTYPE
NICVLAN;integer;undef;network (vlan) number to which the NIC should be connected, assigned by scheduler to jobs with NICTYPE != user
NUMDISKS;integer;1;Number of disks to be created and attached to VM
OFW;;;
PATHCNT;integer;2;Number of paths in MULTIPATH scenario
PXEBOOT;boolean;0;Boot VM from network
QEMU;QEMU binary filename;undef;Filename of QEMU binary to use
QEMUCPU;see qemu -cpu ?;undef;CPU to emulate
QEMUCPUS;integer;1;Number of CPUs to assign to VM
QEMUMACHINE;see qemu -machine ?;undef;Machine and chipset to emulate
QEMUPORT;integer;20002 + worker instance * 10;Port on which QEMU monitor should listen
QEMURAM;integer;1024;Size of RAM of VM in MiB
QEMUTHREADS;integer;0;Number of cpu threads used by VM
QEMUVGA;see qemu -device ?;cirrus;VGA device to use with VM
QEMU_COMPRESS_QCOW2;boolean;0;compress qcow2 images intended for upload
QEMU_NO_FDC_SET;boolean;0;Don't disable the floppy drive.
QEMU_NO_KVM;boolean;0;Don't use KVM acceleration.
QEMU_NO_TABLET;boolean;0;Don't use USB tablet.
QEMU_VIRTIO_RNG;boolean;0;Enable virtio random number generator
QEMU_NUMA;boolean;0;Enable NUMA simulation, requires QEMUCPUS to be greater than one
QEMU_SMBIOS;see qemu -smbios ?;undef;pass this value to qemu -smbios
RAIDLEVEL;;;
SKIPTO;full name of test module;;Restore VM from snapshot and continue by running specified test module. Needs HDD image with snapshots present
TAPDEV;device name;undef;TAP device name to which virtual NIC should be connected. Usually undef so automatic matching is used
TAPSCRIPT;;;
TESTDEBUG;boolean;0;Enable test debugging: override 'milestone' and 'fatal' test flags to 1. Snapshot are created after each successful test module and each fail aborts test run
UEFI;;;
UEFI_PFLASH;boolean;0;Enable the pflash mode to write the UEFI variables directly into the firmware file instead of NVvars in the EFI system partition
UEFI_BIOS;;;
USBBOOT;boolean;0;Mount ISO as USB disk and boot VM from it
VDE_PORT;integer;worker instance + 10;number of vde switch port to connect
VDE_SOCKETDIR;string;.;directory where vde_switch control socket is to be found
VDE_USE_SLIRP;integer;1;whether to start slirpvde
VNC;integer;worker instance + 90;Display on which VNC server is running. Actual port is 5900 + VNC
VNCKB;;;
|====================

.SVIRT backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
HDDSIZEGB;integer;15;Disk size in GB
QEMUCPUS;integer;1;Number of CPUs to assign to VM
QEMURAM;integer;1024;Size of RAM of VM in MiB
VIRSH_HOSTNAME;string;SSH Host with virtsh;
VIRSH_PASSWORD;string;Password for root account on above host;
VIRSH_VMM_FAMILY;string;Host's hypervisor ('kvm', 'xen');
VIRSH_VMM_TYPE;string;Host's hypervisor type ('hvm' for full virtualization on 'kvm' and 'xen' families, 'linux' for paravirtualization on 'xen' family);
VIRSH_GUEST;string;Where to look for VNC server (SUT or VM);
VIRSH_INSTANCE;integer;VM's instance number on VIRSH_HOSTNAME;
VMWARE_USERNAME;string;Administrator's username ('@' is '%40');
VMWARE_PASSWORD;string;Administrator's password;
VMWARE_HOST;string;VCS server for autentication;
VMWARE_DATACENTER;string;VMware datacenter;
VMWARE_SERVER;string;ESX server to start VM on;
VMWARE_DATASTORE;string;VMware datastore;
VMWARE_SERIAL_PORT;string;TCP port where is VM's serial port stream to be expected on the ESX server;
VMWARE_BRIDGE;string;VMware's bridge name (usual default is 'VM Network');
HYPERV_USERNAME;string;Administrator account name;
HYPERV_PASSWORD;string;Password for above account;
HYPERV_SERVER;string;Windows Server (2008 R2, 2012 R2, or 2016) instance IP address;
HYPERV_SERIAL_PORT;integer;TCP port where is VM's serial port stream to be expected on the Hyper-V server;
|====================

.PVM backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
MEM;integer;2048;amount of RAM
LPAR;string;osauto;LPAR name to be created
NUMDISKS;integer;1;Number of disks
HDDSIZEGB;integer;15;Disk size in GB
NICVLAN;integer;1;VLAN to attach to
VSWITCH;string;VSWITCH0;A virtula switch to connect to
CPUS;integer;1;Number of CPUS for LPAR
|====================

.GENERAL_HW backend
[grid="rows",format="csv"]
[options="header",cols="^m,^m,^m,v",separator=";"]
|====================
Variable;Values allowed;Default value;Explanation
GENERAL_HW_VNC_IP;string;;Hostname of the gadget's network
GENERAL_HW_CMD_DIR;string;;Directory with allowed CMD scripts
GENERAL_HW_SOL_CMD;string;;Shell Script to output serial output (in CMD_DIR)
GENERAL_HW_POWERON_CMD;string;;Shell Command to power on the SUT (in CMD_DIR)
GENERAL_HW_POWEROFF_CMD;string;;Shell Command to power off the SUT (in CMD_DIR)
|====================
